all right today today we're going to
look at the one of the most common
issues with smart boards in the
districts when the smart boards are not
communicating properly with your laptop
or a desktop it really doesn't matter
it's a mode called hid mode which is a
mouse only mode so basically what
happens is either you walk in in the
morning and you turn your board on or
you come back from teaching or come back
from break or something like that and
you look at the board and everything
looks normal except for the light on the
board is now flashing green rather than
being a solid green and when you try to
use your pens you try to use the eraser
it doesn't work but if you use say your
finger and you move it around the board
you do get a mouse or a cursor that
follows and allows you to either click
or right click on things but this is a
limited function obviously because you
can't write on the board and that's kind
of one of the main uses so to get it out
of this mode we have to try a couple of
things the first thing that we want to
do is open our smart settings so if you
go up and spotlight it by using the
little magnifying glass and start typing
in smart comes up right here smart
settings a little tool is the icon when
I open this up it gives me several
options for the boards this is kind of
where the Diagnostics are the one that
we want is right here the connection
wizard you'll notice right away that if
your board is on and it's in that
flashing mode you should get the same
message that no smart boards are
connected meaning the smart board is on
it's connected to your computer but
they're not talking to each other so it
tells you right here press connection
wizard and when we launch the connection
wizard which you can see down here in
the dock now is launching it will scan
the system
and it's looking for smart products when
it comes back it should say smart board
800 series on here and then underneath
that will likely be my smart product is
not listed you'll want to select that
800 series and then hit continue and
then after that you can just X out of it
if it says smart board 800 series that
means it's found your board and it's
reestablished the connection between
them and if you look up at the board it
should have stopped flashing green and
you if you go up and try the markers out
you should be able to write on the board
if not then we need to try some other
things but first let's talk a little bit
about why this might happen the
connection can be lost in several
different ways but the most common way
that it's lost is from your computer
either your desktop or laptop shutting
off and going to sleep after a period of
time so we want to make sure that when
you have it sitting at your desk or your
cart or whatever that it's not going to
go to sleep if you don't use it for a
little while so to do that we're going
to click our systems preferences when
that comes up we're going to go up to
energy saver click that and then you're
going to have two options you're going
to have when it's running if you have a
laptop when it's running just off of the
battery and then when it's running off
of power adapter the in both cases
you'll want to shut it the sleep
function off by going over selecting the
bar and sliding it all the way over to
never the display sleep doesn't matter
but the important thing here is never
here and then in terms of putting the
hard disk to sleep you want to uncheck
that and then for your battery the same
thing you'd want to put down never and
uncheck that if it's not plugged in this
will prevent your computer from going to
sleep and severing the connect
between the two in such a way that it
won't be able to connect again and
likely will solve the problem in most
cases if not if you're still having
problems with that and you run the
connection work wizard and then what you
want to do is completely shut down
restart the computer again and run the
connection wizard again this again
solves usually most of the rest of the
problems for the probably 5% less
purpose 5% that are left or need to
reinstall the drivers so in order to do
that you'll need the CD from the smart
software and you can update the drivers
that way by just putting in the CD it
will auto run on your computer and it
will go through the updating process
when that's done it will update the
drivers update the firmware in the board
and then the board should connect just
fine that would work as well if you're
doing instead of doing the connection
wizard but the connection wizards
they'll just a lot faster if you do not
have your CD can't find it let me know I
do have an extra and then I can bring to
you but that should solve that problem
and this has been fixing your smart
board when it goes into hid mode